Hannah Elmore
SOCIAL MEDIA MANAGER
work experience contact
SOCIAL MEDIA PRODUCER LinkedIn Profile:
Strategea Branding, a global firm that specializes linkedin.com/in/name
in online advertising content for clients across
various industries +123 456 7890
March 2022 to August 2025 @reallygreatsite
(3 years, 5 months) hello@reallygreatsite.com
Increased impressions and clicks on companies' social
media accounts by 70% year over year after
managing them in less than 10 months
Boosted social media following by 100% month over
month by creating a more regular posting schedule Click here for
for content my portfolio
Increased our client base by 5% by establishing
partnerships with content creators and influencers on
prominent social media sites
SOCIAL MEDIA PRODUCER professional skills
Studio Rallia
November 2020 to January 2022 Search Engine Optimization
(1 year, 2 months) Digital Marketing
Social Media Strategy
Achieved online quarterly sales growth of 50% after Web Content Development
spearheading a viral campaign for one of the Copywriting
company's new products Layout Design
Increased the following of the company's social media Photo Editing
platforms by 300% year over year by developing a
solid social media strategy
Helped maintain a 100% customer satisfaction rating
by responding to questions promptly on social media
accounts
education awards
BACHELOR OF ARTS, MAJOR IN COMMUNICATION MOST OUTSTANDING MEDIA
University of Roseton, 2020 PRODUCER
Studio Rallia, 2021
GPA 3.9
Best Thesis BEST INTERN
Goulcrest Media, 2019
resource SOME TIPS FOR CREATING
AN EFFECTIVE CV
page
01 Adding your photo to a CV is optional. 06 Having a list of references is no
Photos help recruiters remember you, but longer required in CVs. The same goes
there is a risk of unconscious bias. for a summary or objective section.
02 Adding volunteer work and other interests 07 Add the logo of the companies you
is optional. Information under this section have worked in. Link their website or
may seem irrelevant but it can build rapport LinkedIn profiles too. Write a short
with recruiters. description of what the company does if
they are not well known.
03 Do not crowd your CV. Feel free to use a 08 Remember to add how long you have
second page, which usually features your stayed in a particular role. Write out
educational background and other the years and months. Example: Jan
achievements and awards. 2020 to June 2022 (2 years and 5
months).
04 Make sure the CV's design aesthetic 09 When writing out your achievements
matches the job you are applying for. For and responsibilities for a job, it is ideal
creative roles, you may prefer CVs with a to follow this format: "I have achieved X
touch of color. For more corporate roles, go by doing Y with a result of Z."
for a more simple design. Quantitative information is highly
preferred.
05 You want your CV to have a link to your 10 Only list skills you are confident in
Linkedin account and your portfolio site so and are relevant to the job. You may
recruiters can immediately see what you've also list specific software or tools that
accomplished. are important to the role.
What recruiters usually look for in a CV
(in order of importance):
1.Experience
2.Role or Title
3.Company's Credibility
4.Results, Responsibilities, Achievements
5.Portfolio
6.Contact Information IMPORTANT: Download your CV as a PDF. Do
7.Skills & Relevant Software not use docx, png, or jpg since an applicant
8.Educational Background tracking system may not be able to properly
9.Volunteering and Other Interests display the file or scan the text.