
1
ACCOUNTANT
Summary
Financial Accountant specializing in financial planning, reporting and analysis within the Department of Defense.
Highlights
Account reconciliations
Results-oriented
Financial reporting
Critical thinking
Accounting operations professional
Analysis of financial systems
ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) software.
Excellent facilitator
Accomplishments
Served on a tiger team which identified and resolved General Ledger postings in DEAMS totaling $360B in accounting adjustments. This allowed
for the first successful fiscal year-end close for 2012.
In collaboration with DFAS Europe, developed an automated tool that identified duplicate obligations. This tool allowed HQ USAFE to
deobligate over $5M in duplicate obligations.
Experience
Company Name July 2011 to November 2012 Accountant 
City , State
Enterprise Resource Planning Office (ERO)
In this position as an Accountant assigned to the Defense Enterprise Accounting and Management System (DEAMS) ERO I was
responsible for identifying and resolving issues affecting the DEAMS General Ledger.
I worked with teammates from the Procure to Pay, Orders to Cash, and Budget to Report areas to resolve daily challenges encountered
with the deployment of DEAMS to additional customers and when system change requests were promoted to production.
I supported the testing of scripts, patches, and system change requests ensuring any anomalies were identified to the DEAMS Functional
Management Office for action by the DEAMS Program Management Office and/or the System Integrator.
In addition, I served on a tiger team designed to identify and resolve General Ledger posting differences and supported the development of
$360B in accounting adjustments allowing for the first successful fiscal year-end close in 2012.
These actions also allowed for the reconciliation and closure of fiscal year 2010 and 2011 accounting adjustments ensuring that all DEAMS
fiscal year-end requirements were completed.
These actions were recognized as critical to the successful review report issued by the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
(AFOTEC) resulting in the Air Force receiving the authority to continue with the deployment of DEAMS.
Company Name April 2010 to June 2011 Resource Advisor 
City , State
In this position as Resource Advisor for the 1st Air Communications Operation Squadron (1ACOS) I was responsible for providing
financial advice and decision support to the Commander.
I was responsible for coordinating a $4.6M budget between four funding sources.
I coordinated with USAFE Directorate of Intelligence (USAFE/A2), USAFE Directorate of Air and Space Operations (USAFE/A3),
USAFE Directorate of Communications (USAFE/A6) and the 435th Air Ground Operations Wing to ensure 1ACOS meets its mission
requirements.
I consistently managed three separate timelines for providing budget/unfunded requirements, providing documentation and various reports in
the required format for each organization.
I discussed the outcome of the Group and Directorate budget meetings providing feedback the same day to the Flight Chiefs and CC any
issue which affects 1ACOS directly.
I monitored the Defense Travel System (DTS) daily and identify orders and authorizations needing approval and provided notification to the
appropriate Reviewing Officials and Approvers.
Utilizing DTS and the General Accounting and Finance System I reviewed status reports to identify anomalies in obligations and have
identified those orders which require correction prior to payment.
I provided Government Purchase Card (GPC) status reports the same day they are requested and in addition, communicated with the
appropriate cardholders when changes were required to support their program.
I identified cardholder training requirements and monitored these requirements to ensure all required training was completed in support of
this mission critical program.
I developed guidance for the GPC cardholders on procedures for requesting training for the squadron and in addition I provided answers to
cardholder questions on unique or non-standard issues/concerns.
Assumed the role of the Billing Official during my final rating period and completed a self inspection of the program for the Management
Control Program, zero findings.
During yearly audit by 700th CONS received zero findings.
Company Name July 2008 to April 2010 Staff Accountant 
City , State
In my position as the Staff Accountant for HQ USAFE I was responsible for providing accounting and financial oversight and advice to
customers throughout the Command in support of the USAFE Comptroller.
I was responsible for performing ongoing analysis of financial programs to identify negative trends and weaknesses, ensured specific
weaknesses were corrected, and determined whether systemic or repeat issues were identified and adequately addressed.
I was required to apply a comprehensive knowledge of analysis/reporting requirements and data produced to resolve these issues.
In collaboration with DFAS Europe, developed an automated tool that identifies duplicate obligations by comparing records in the
accounting system to the contracting system and provided notification to the funds manager for review and resolution.
This tool eliminated hours of manual research and results allowed HQ USAFE to deobligate over $5M in duplicate obligations.
I was responsible for establishing various performance metrics which ensured effective and efficient use of USAFE financial resources.
I supported the USAFE/FMA Financial metrics program by collaborating with DFAS Limestone in the development of an automated tool
that provided senior leaders with visibility to any USAFE unit that is not in compliance with the established rules and regulations related to
the GPC.
This tool provides management reports that are used to populate the monthly metric charts which are briefed by the USAFE/FMA.
This tool provided the capability for USAFE/FMA to collaborate with USAFE Contracting and develop/deploy joint guidance that supports
the established Air Force Instruction mandating card suspension for card holders who are not in compliance with required reservation of
funds in the entitlement system in support of the GPC.
I identified and resolved a problem with five GPC accounts that had been rejecting during the automated interface process each month.
My research revealed that these accounts were rejecting for invalid paying station and required manual intervention by both Wing and
DFAS personnel.
This not only created rework, it delayed the payment of the invoices.
I partnered with DFAS Denver, corrected the records in the Access On-Line accounts eliminating the error condition.
I identified a method to deliver one-on-one training in support of the USAFE deployment of the Open Document Analysis (ODA) tool in
FMSuite.
By utilizing Defense Connect Online I provided training remotely, virtually eliminating the need to expend funds on Temporary Duty (TDY)
travel.
The results of this training produced results that went well above expectations and were noted by the ODA Program Management Office.
Company Name January 2007 to July 2009 Chief, Reports Branch. Accounts Maintenance and Control 
City , State
In my position as Chief of the Reports Branch in Accounts Maintenance & Control (AM&C) I was responsible for ensuring the
development and standardization of various managerial and system reports.
I was responsible for the completeness and accuracy of weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, and annual reports.
My branch monitored errors in the General Accounting and Finance System (GAFS/BQ) and ensured corrective actions were
accomplished.
I also ensured fund balances were reconciled and reports were verified prior to release to base activities and higher headquarters.
Limestone reorganized under the High Performing Organization (HPO) in January 2007 and at that time I was reassigned to AM&C, a
Directorate which previously did not exist.
My challenge during that time was to staff my branch, implement an aggressive training schedule, and ensure the continuity of financial
reporting was maintained.
As we transitioned into the HPO we continued defining the missions and functions for AM&C for the entire network.
I participated in biweekly conference calls with Standards and Compliance in an effort to define missions and functions for AM&C.
Worked with management in determining FTEs needed for the branch.
I was responsible for developing meaningful performance standards for my employees since this branch and its functions did not previously
exist.
Limestone POC for an initiative to eliminate suspense accounts throughout the agency.
Identified suspense accounts not initially targeted, formulated strategies to eliminate accounts or requested waivers, and participated in plans
to modify processes using suspense accounts, such as the interfund suspense account.
These actions provided initial progress towards meeting the Department of Treasury's mandate to discontinue suspense accounts by
February 2009.
Worked with staff to reduce reconciliations from $6.9 million in February 2007 to $1.1 million in August, accomplished this despite loss in
experienced personnel and realigning resources to support critical initiatives in Accounts Payable.
I orchestrated the transition of reporting requirements for the Transportation Financial Management System (TFMS) workload from DFAS
Omaha to Limestone.
After transition to Limestone encouraged staff responsible for these reports to streamline the processes.
Staff automated a completely manual, time consuming process, thus eliminating potential key stroke errors and manually validating numerous
spreadsheets and listings.
Contributor to Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) Compliance Review and establishment of assessable units.
